hi guys I'm Ed leak from Midas media
today we're going to run through Store
homepage optimization using your site
search and your best performing products
so it's really easy for store owners to
take abroad or Worse throw the kitchen
syn edit mentality for their website
homepage so just cram everything on
there and people will find the the right
thing wrong seeing more options does
indeed attract attention and it makes
people excited but often results in
failure to actually make a choice here's
a little case study using Jam yep jars
of jam so this Behavior was demonstrated
in the jam experiment by Sheena irar and
Mark leop back in year 2000 uh in which
a tasting booth for exotic jams was set
up at a grocery store as customers
passed by the tasting Booth they
encountered a display of either six or
24 different flavored jams so what did
irar and Lepa find they discovered that
3% of people purchased from the 24 Jam
display which is okay whereas 30%
purchased from the six Jam display
that's a 10-fold increase in sales so
what's my point well you need to remove
excessive Jam from your store's homepage
pun intended how do we do this we start
with the website's search facility so
let's dive into Google analytics and
quickly find out which product should
populate the homepage I'm now in the
behavior report and we need to click on
the site search dropdown and then usage
uh and let's refine this with e-commerce
data this report identifies the power of
site search note the conversion rate of
those people searching being over double
that of people who don't search also
their session value is over twice the
value of non- searches so now we can see
the importance of site search let's take
a look at the overview tab this gives us
a quick health check on how well our
search is performing pay close attention
to search exits this number should be as
low as possible so if people search and
don't find what they're looking for
they'll leave and you just missed a an
opportunity to convert the 17% exits in
this example is really low so that's
good uh but still there's there's always
room to improve uh secondly understand
how many people refine their search if
this number is high it could suggest
your search facility isn't performing or
isn't optimized you know for example
does it understand misspellings and
related terms now only 21% of people
refine their search so that's not too
shabby but then again there's room to
improve here adding filters to the
search results page could help reduce
this somewhat because at the end of the
day the search results is another
shopping page so there should be
filtering and categorization on there
time after search is telling uh did they
find the thing they were looking for uh
a good few minutes or more would suggest
that they did you've kept them kept them
on the site uh and this example has 3
minutes and 32 seconds on average which
is you know it's a good job so site
search tells you what your customers
want so if people who search convert
really well the logic would suggest that
uh get more people to search right
that's not entirely true what we
actually want to do is make the products
that people search for easier to find in
the first place that's the logical
conclusion and considering your homepage
is typically the most frequented page on
your website then it makes sense to
optimize your homepage to display your
most popular products and not just your
sale items and special offers therefore
let's combine your site search data with
top performing product data this can be
found in your conversion data which is
under the shopping analysis dropdown and
product performance now depending on
what you sell you can use product
revenue or perhaps unique purchases to
sort this data unique purchase numbers
work well for tightly price product
ranges whereas Revenue well it's pretty
self-explanatory when you have a low
unique purchase number keep a close eye
on your conversions on this View and
that's described as buy to detail rate
in other words how many or what
percentage of people purchased after
looking at the product page so this
again this can highlight high demand
products that could convert potentially
better if the product page was better so
you don't have to stuff your top 10
products on your homepage the top three
to five could be more than enough to
start with and of course complement
these with the site search data
so the key Store homepage optimization
takeaways are that's a bit of a mouthful
optimize your site search in other words
make sure it works well ensure that it
matches misspelled and related terms and
that you offer sorting and filtering on
search results this is a a shopping page
after all so aim for a low exit rate
after search and you know the results
should keep them on the site it should
convert them to of course and use the
site search information to showcase the
most popular products on your homepage
and of course you can show them
throughout the website in promotional
areas if you if you have that facility
and that's it I mean that will help you
improve your homepage drastically put
stuff in front of people that they want
but don't overdo it hope you enjoyed the
video if you did I'd appreciate your
like and any shares and of course if you
have any questions please leave them in
the comments below and until next time
good luck and cheers